So in order to make this menu accessible, and by accessible I mean it can be accessed by screen readers
and also blind people who navigate using the keyboard without any mouse access.
So first you should make sure that you have your focus ring. And focus ring is this ring around the
links and buttons and stuff like that.
And that will let you know which link you're currently focused on. So if you're navigating by keyboard and
I'm now clicking tab,
you will know exactly which link you're on.
And if you click enter on one of these it will go to this link. To make sure you have this focus ring,
actually it's in  most browser it's there by default.
So if we inspect this link and toggle the focus state. And I'm gonna remove my styling. So I'm gonna
remove the focus outline. And this is the default browser one.
You can change how it looks, but you should never remove it.
You should never say focus outline none
And that's not only for the menu that's for any link or button or any focusable element in your
page.
So that's the first thing.
But now even that we have that and we are navigating using the tab key. And I'm gonna remove the.
I'm navigating using the tab key now.
But for me now there is no way to open the sub menu.
If I, if I'm not having a mouse and that's a problem.
Right?
So to tackle that there are multiple ways. So I'm gonna Google now "accessible dropdown menu". And you probably
find the first link. And here we'll find the multiple approaches.
I choose to use this one. So this one you will, you can navigate using the tab and they also have an a
down arrow like we do. But the down arrow they have is actually a button so you can focus on it,
you can click enter and then you can continue navigating.
So that's what we're gonna do for our menu.
We're gonna turn  our icons here into not just icons but buttons.
So let's do that.
So before doing the this button thing let's take a look at this one. And let's inspect. And let's inspect  the menu that
has children.
And if you take a look at the link you'll find that it has two attributes, two "aria" attributes. And "aria"
attributes are for accessibility, for screen readers.
So as you might know the "aria" attributes and accessibility thing, it's a big topic and there is a lot to read
about it.
But I'm gonna, I'm just gonna summarize this article and what we need to do for each thing.
If it has a submenu we need to add the "aria-haspopup" attribute which will be true and "aria-expanded"
attribute which will be true if the menu is currently opened and false if it's closed.
So that's actually a great exercise to do to use WordPress filters in order to modify this menu and
add some attributes to the ANCHOR tag.
So we have this ANCHOR tag here.
We need to filter it and add some attributes to it.
So let's go to navigation.php.
And let's add another filter.So let's create a new function.
And "_themename_"
And let's call it "aria_hasdropdown". And this filter will receive three attributes.
So the first one is the attributes array.
It's an array of attributes for the link, the ANCHOR tag.
And we can modify it and return it like any field.
And we'll see in a moment. And the $item like this one, the navigation post object. And the $args which is also like
this one, the arguments of the
wp-nav-menu() function.
So we need to do the same thing when it first to check.
If we are in the right menu.
So let's copy this one.
And also we need to check that if our current menu item has children.
So let's copy this one also.
And if so we need to modify the attributes.
So as I mentioned the $atts or the attributes is an array of the attributes, HTML attributes
for the link not for the LI.
So that's what we need. Ao we can add an attribute by just adding a new key to the array. So
in our case the key will be the attribute and the value will be the value. So "aria-haspopup"
and this will be "true". Another one "aria-expanded".
And this will be "false" by default. Because by default the menu items will be closed. So let's save and we
actually did not add a filter.
So it's called "nav_menu_link_attributes" and the function.  We actually have typo here, "aria".
And
priority 10 and arguments we have 3. So let's save and let's take a look now.
Ok.
Looks like we have an error.
Ok we forgot to return the filtered attributes.
As you can see now, for the link that has submenu,
we now have our attributes.
So great.
So later we will, using JavaScript,
we will manipulate these attributes when the menu is opened we will change "aria-expanded" to "true".
And when it's closed we will reverse it and so on.
But for now let's do the important part which is turning this icon a button.
So we have this icon here we added using this filter. So what we needs to is just to wrap it in a button.
But I'm just gonna create a new function for this button because this will be a lot of HTML. So
almost better organization for your code.
So let's call it
"button" and it will take some arguments about let's just  create our HTML. So let's create a new variable called $button
and will open a button and give it a class
And this will be used in JavaScript. So it's important to give it a class to be able to target this button.
And inside this button we need to concatenate the icon.
So let's copy this and let's change this to "button" and let's close the button tag.
So concatenate and "".
So the first argument for this function will be the direction of the arrow.
And let's give it a default value.
And let's remove this and concatenate it using the function argument.
And this function will the return of the HTML.
And now we can use this function here.
And this one will take the down arrow and this one will take the right.
So let's see
now if this is working. We now have this as a button.
So let's focus on this link and then tab.
And now we are able to focus on the button.
Of course we we don't have any function as you know we'll write some javascript in the next lecture where
we can click enter on the button and it will open the submenu.
But for now let's just finish this up.
So what we need to do is add some text for screen readers.
So I think I've mentioned this a lot.
We have a button here that only has an icon a screen reader user will not be able to tell what this
button will do.
So we need to have some screen-reader-text for this button so that the screen readers will know what this
button will do when it's focused. So let's add a SPAN.
And let's give it a class "u-screen-reader-text". Sorry because we don't need this text
to appear actually. We just need it for screen readers. And let's give it to another class.
And this will be for the JavaScript which will be in the next section.
And inside the SPAN will there be something and then we'll close the SPAN.
So inside the SPAN we need to add some text. So I think the text for this button could be two things.
It could be show the the title of the menu and then submenu.
So in this case "Show About The Tests" submenu or if it's already opens it should read "Hide About The Tests"
submenu.
So how to do that.
Let's go back now to the code.
So the default text will be, let's do sprint() and you'll see why in a moment. And then "esc_html__"
and then we'll type our text here. And then text domain.
So we need the text to be "Show"
and then the title of the menu. And then "submenu".
So the second argument for the sprint(),  it needs to be the title of the menu.
So where do we get that from.
We can pass it here and the function.
It's the $title.
And then you can use it in the function.
So now I have a SPAN with a class "menu-button-show" and it's text says "Show" and than the title "submenu".
And when you do another one.
So this duplicated this and let's call this "menu-button-hide".
And this classes are for the JavaScript as I mentioned. And this one will say "Hide submenu".
And this is what we need to be read out by the screen reader when the menu is already opened and we
need to hide it.
So by default the menu will be closed. So we need only the first text.
So to make the screen readers ignore the other text
we can add "aria-hidden="true"" and this will be ignored.
And using JavaScript when the menu is opened we will set this to "false" and then add "aria-hidden="true"" for
the first text.
So I hope this makes sense to you. Let's now save and see what we have now. And the menus and the icons disappeared.
I discovered the mistake I made. So let's go to add this closing tag here,
and here. So let's check again. And we now have our icon or button. It has the icon and has two SPANs. The second one will be
"Hide" and then "About The Tests" which is the menu title, "submenu"
So we need a space here and this will be hidden by default.
So by default this one would be read out by the screen reader which is "Show the submenu" and using
JavaScript we will reverse this two when the menu is opened.
I hope it's clear now. Let's just add the space. Or actually it's not a space issue.
I just forgot to add the
"s".
So sorry for that.
And now there is a space before the "submenu". Let's add the JavaScript logic for this button
in the next lecture.